#summary Publications describing and using Sirca (or its ancestors)
#labels Featured


==Publications using Sirca==

  *  Doran, R.J. & Laffan, S.W. (2005) Simulating the spatial dynamics of foot and mouth disease outbreaks in feral pigs and livestock in Queensland, Australia, using a Susceptible-Infected-Recovered Cellular Automata model. Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 70, 133-152.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.prevetmed.2005.03.002

  *  Highfield, L.D., Ward, M.P. & Laffan, S.W. (2008) Representation of animal distributions in space: how geostatistical estimates impact simulation modeling of foot-and-mouth disease spread. Veterinary Research, 39:17.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1051/vetres:2007055

  *  Highfield, L.D., Ward, M.P., Laffan, S.W., Norby, B.N. & Wagner, G.G. (2009) The impact of seasonal variability in wildlife populations on the predicted spread of foot and mouth disease. Veterinary Research, 40:18.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1051/vetres:2009001

  *  Highfield, L.D., Ward, M.P., Laffan, S.W., Norby, B. & Wagner, G.G. (2010) Critical parameters for modeling the spread of foot and mouth disease in white-tailed deer populations. Epidemiology and Infection, 138, 125-138.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0950268809002829

  *  Highfield, L.D., Ward, M.P., Laffan, S.W., Norby, B.N. & Wagner, G.G. (2010) The impact of potential mitigation strategies on the predicted spread of foot and mouth disease in white-tailed deer in south Texas. Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 94, 282-288.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.prevetmed.2010.01.015

  *  Laffan, S.W., Lubarsky, E., Ward, M.P. & Highfield, L.D. (2007) A geographic automata system for modelling disease outbreaks. In: MODSIM 2007 International Congress on Modelling and Simulation (eds. L. Oxley and D. Kulasiri), pp. 1252-1257. Modelling and Simulation Society of Australia and New Zealand, Lincoln, New Zealand.  http://www.mssanz.org.au/MODSIM07/papers/21_s46/AGeographic_s46_Taffan_.pdf

  *  Laffan, S.W., Wang, Z. & Ward, M.P. (in press) The effect of neighbourhood definitions on spatio-temporal models of disease outbreaks: separation distance versus range overlap. Preventive Veterinary Medicine.  Accepted 26Mar2011.

  *  Ward, M.P., Laffan, S.W. & Highfield, L.D. (2007) The potential role of wild and feral animals as reservoirs of foot-and-mouth disease. Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 80, 9-23.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.prevetmed.2007.01.009

  *  Ward, M.P., Laffan, S.W. & Highfield, L.D. (2009) Modelling spread of foot-and-mouth disease in wild white-tailed deer and feral pig populations using a geographic-automata model and animal distributions. Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 91, 55-63.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.prevetmed.2009.05.005

  *  Ward, M.P., Laffan, S.W. & Highfield, L.D. (2011) Disease spread models in wild and feral animal populations: application of artificial life models. OIE Scientific and Technical Review: Models in the management of animal diseases, 30, Accepted 22Jun2010